It really irked me when in 2024 most
people were saying AI is here and now
the PM job is gone. There were others
who were saying AI is here. So now we
can do the things we don't like to do
with AI.
>> What do you find is most common across
the companies that are succeeding?
>> Companies that recognize that AI is not
this magic thing that you're going to
slather on to your product. The problems
are still the problem.
>> Something else that I think is also
really important is getting super
hands-on with the tech. I've written
more code in the last one year than I
have in the last 10 years because code
is now essentially architecture and
English. I'll pick a project that
touches a lot of the things that I need
to learn. One of the passion projects I
have is to automate my house. The idea
is that I give the house eyes and ears.
The coolest thing is I've speced out a
super sensor. It will see people, hear
them, it will sense humidity and
temperature. and I'm building the
hardware myself.
>> Today, my guests are Aji and Ezin Udzue.
They are married, both longtime product
leaders with over 50 years of combined
product experience. They're also the
authors of a new book that I love called
building rocket ships, product
management for high growth companies,
which is a synthesis of their biggest
product lessons over the course of their
entire career. Aji was chief product
officer at Kalanley and Typform and led
product teams at Twitter, Atlassian and
Microsoft. Ezene was CPO at WP Engine
and VP of product at Procore. We chat
about what is changing in the role of
product management. Also, what is
staying the same. We also get into the
shift of PM to ratios that AI is
introducing, the five skills becoming
most important in being a successful PM
over the coming years, and the single
biggest lesson that each of them have
learned over the course of their
careers. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if
you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of 15
incredible products including Lovable,
Replet, Bolt, Naden, Linear, Superhum,
Dcript, Whisper Flow, Gamma, Perplexity,
Warp, Granola, Magic Patterns, Raycast,
Chapd, and Mobin. Head over to
lennisnewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Aji and
Ezine Odzwe. This episode is brought to
you by Mercury. I've been banking with
Mercury for years and honestly, I can't
imagine banking any other way at this
point. I switched from Chase and holy
moly, what a difference. Sending wires,
tracking spend, giving people on my team
access to move money around. So freaking
easy. Where most traditional banking
websites and apps are clunky and hard to
use, Mercury is meticulously designed to
be an intuitive and simple experience.
And Mercury brings all the ways that you
use money into a single product,
including credit cards, invoicing, bill
pay, reimbursements for your teammates,
and capital. Whether you're a funded
tech startup looking for ways to pay
contractors and earn yield on your idle
cash, or an agency that needs to invoice
customers and keep them current, or an
e-commerce brand that needs to stay on
top of cash flow and excess capital,
Mercury can be tailored to help your
business perform at its highest level.
See what over 200,000 entrepreneurs love
about Mercury. Visit mercury.com to
apply online in 10 minutes. Mercury is a
fintech, not a bank. Banking services
provided through Mercury's FDIC insured
partner banks. For more details, check
out the show notes. My podcast guests
and I love talking about craft and taste
and agency and product market fit. You
know what we don't love talking about?
Sock 2. That's where Vanta comes in.
Vanta helps companies of all sizes get
compliant fast and stay that way with
industryleading AI automation and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first sock 2 or
ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
vendor risk, Vanta's trust management
platform makes it quicker, easier, and
more scalable. Vanta also helps you
complete security questionnaires up to
five times faster so that you can win
bigger deals sooner. The result,
according to a recent IDC study, Vanta
customers slashed over $500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
Aji and Ezine, thank you so much for
being here and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you for having us, Lenny. It's
absolutely my pleasure. You guys are a
rare guest duo. You two are married.
You're both longtime product leaders.
You've been in product combined for over
50 years. The cool thing about the fact
that you guys have been in product for
so long is that you've seen a lot of
change in the role of a PM and the role
of building products. You've also seen
what doesn't change. And so, let me
actually start here and I'll throw this
to Ezene. What are you seeing changing
most in the role and day-to-day job of a
product manager and what are you seeing
staying the same?
>> At a high level, the core value that a
PM has to deliver hasn't changed. Um, it
really is uh derisking
the product delivery process while also
really trying to maximize the value the
business gets from these investments.
But tactically, I think that the good
thing is that we're finding out that PMs
are freed up more and as a result,
they're they can actually invest more in
true
developing true insights about their
customer. So you're you're seeing or
you're finding out your engineering
leaders, engineering team is they're
asking you to really confirm
your insight and your instinct about the
customer. The second thing I would say
is
that there is a need to orchestrate a
little differently. So in the past it
was around people orchestrating people
getting them into the room etc. But now
there are many moving pieces not there's
the software there's there also the
feedback loops the LLMs that are the
multiple touch points that you have in
technology ensuring that those are also
being built in a way that allows for
true learning with within your software.
So that idea of working static software
isn't true anymore. It's almost like
living breathing software and ensuring
that the things that allow it to breathe
actually occur. The other piece, two
other pieces, data literacy,
um an understanding of what it is that
your product is learning from. Uh what
where is the data going and how is it
being used? How is it being
organized so that it could be leveraged
for future insight about your product
use and customer use? And then the last
I would say is just creating the right
guard rails within your product to
ensure that it actually continues to do
what it needs to do. You know, we spoke
earlier and I have a whole thing about
ethics of AI, etc. And I think that we
have a responsibility as product f uh
people and I'm seeing PMs ask the
questions that we didn't get to see them
ask when we were building social media.
So that those are the kind of things I
would say. I definitely want to come
back to that topic. There's something
you just talked about that ref uh
connects so deeply with something a
recent guest talked about Asha Sharma.
She's a chief vice president Microsoft
working on AI and she had this concept
that products are evolving from product
as artifact where it's this like done
thing you ship to a product as organism
that continues to evolve based on data
that it's feeding and this metabolism of
data. In with our book, you'll see we
talk about systems and I have this
innate passion around the idea of what a
system is and it has to do with that
living, breathing and interaction with
every with other things. So yes, yes,
yes, and yes.
>> Let me throw over to Audi this first
point you made. Uh I I love this idea
that PMs there's more time spent almost
at kind of the top of the funnel, the
top of the product development life
cycle, confirming insights from customer
data, deciding what to build. Uh there's
talk recently of just PMs are almost
becoming the bottleneck for teams
because engineers are moving so much
faster and PMs are the same just like
sitting maybe docs are easier to write.
Uh what do you what do you see there?
What do you think about just the the I
don't know this ratio shift potentially
for where PMs almost become a bottleneck
uh with AI accelerating other functions?
For the last 20 years, we've had like
very fixed ratios in terms of how what
gets done. Like PM takes this amount of
time, developers takes amount of time,
go to market takes amount of time. And I
think that contract is basically
exploding because the build process, you
know, sort of the the the close
solutionary process, the build process
is accelerating so fast. And so, uh, a
company we worked with told us that, you
know, they're sort of like a build
contract build company. They say they
will get off the phone from a pitch and
in four hours they would have a
prototype. And so the question is like
what is a PM doing? This person
listening to that is half PM half
developer in order to be able to produce
that. And so what we're seeing is that
the way you know PMs do three things. We
think about what the customers want that
is profitable. So working at sharp
problems and defining sharp problems and
what's in the customer's mind that makes
it sharp. we support the solutioning and
the build of it and then we don't do
this enough but we need to support the
go to market of it and so what's
happening is that this middle thing is
becoming more capable and much faster
and so the way we support it has to
change uh PRD writing is insufficient at
the moment um you know sort of like the
static way we ask questions about what's
in the customer's minds is like that
stuff needs to be like faster the cycle
time is so fast now and so PMs need to
adapt And that means new tool sets, new
skill sets, and so on and so forth. I
think that's where the most pressure is.
But at the same time, like said, PMS can
take some of the if they adapt to this
really well, they can spend a lot more
time here, right? And that's where
there's a lot of opportunity. And you
know, the thing that we want PMs to do
is not be the crouch, not worry about
people saying, "Oh, you're the
bottleneck." No, don't be the bottleneck
first of all, but also since you see
everything, add value in other places
where traditionally you would spend
time.
>> I want to pull on this sharp problem
thread. This is my favorite Audi meme.
We talked about this a bit in your when
you visited the podcast last. I think
it's such a useful concept. So, I just
want to make sure people learn this
while we're talking about talk about
what a sharp problem is and why that's
important. One of the things I learned
from failing a lot at building companies
is that sometimes, you know, the way
that I see other people pitch it is
that, you know, you build something and
if it doesn't work, you pivot da da da,
you know, stuff like that. But it turns
out that
in the world of high technology and the
world of figuring out what customers
need, there are many shortcuts that mean
that pivoting isn't just like a habit,
something you walk around drunkenly
doing, right? A lot of the most
successful people, you know, Bill Gates,
Facebook, and so they didn't even pivot.
They had an idea, but it turned out that
the idea was a sharp problem. So like
the way to avoid drunken startup
building is
pick things that
are old. They their core needs and and
the way you profit is when you
re-imagine old needs in new
technological ways. And that's
important. Now, let's frame it in the
sharp problem. What do people feel
they need help with? What is still
difficult to the point that if you
improve it three to five times, maybe
10x or you take cost out of it, like 10x
the cost, right? One10enth, they'll be
like, "This is so compelling. You should
take my money now." And that's what most
founders should really, really focus on
if they can. Uh there's extended stuff
we talked about over the years like the
unicorn framework which is like if
you're building for B2B specifically how
do you draw a quadrant around a problem
so you know if it's highly frequent
because frequency also means a lot of
pain and and figure it out but that's
something people can read on the
substack.
>> Yeah and we talked about that in our
last chat so I'll point people to that.
Okay. So, building on this idea of being
a drunken walk of figuring out what to
build, you have this concept of the uh
shipyard. And this is kind of a way to
think about uh how to think about what
product development might look like
going forward and just a model for how
to work in this chaotic world that we're
in. Talk about what that looks like and
the and the advice here.
>> I'm going to give some credit. When I
was at Lassian, the first time I
encountered the idea was with Jeff
Redford. He's now like a VC and he
talked about it. But, you know, I've
taken the idea cuz I loved it to maybe a
whole different level, maybe a sense of
clarity. A shipyard is to evoke
controlled chaos. If you go to a
shipyard at peak, you know, Long Beach
or whatever it is, there's so much going
on and there like big heavy machinery
moving around, trucks and containers
from China, from Malaysia jumping
around. But this chaos underlying it is
careful communication, high skill,
right? And so what looks like
you know, you know, Brownian motion is
actually orchestrated progress. And you
know, these are these shipyards at the
center of
GDP for a lot of nations because this is
where trade happens. So this is what
it's supposed to evoke is controlled
chaos. And so what a shipyard team looks
like is a sixperson team. It is uh PM,
it is engineering, it is design, it is
user research, is data, ML, AI
expertise, AIPMs or whatever you call
it. It is um product marketing in a pod,
problem solving. You know, in this
especially in AI age, the idea of
standups isn't really even make as much
sense, right? these people should be you
know communicating and collaborating our
me basically to solve the problem
because they feel like they're working a
new problem say so I think that's what
the core shape your team means and then
there are these tendrils to you know we
call sales people customer success
people the the nervous the skin like
think about the shipyard team is the
brain but this is the skin this is how
you feel customers and so here's a
concrete example
before I shipped anything at Calendarly
I did the design review with a a support
manager,
right? A support manager had to be in
the room because the design people and
the engineering people, as much as we
cared, we shipped problems all the time,
you know, feature debt, where the
support manager looks at it and is like,
that's not going to work. I've had 10 a
thousand conversations and it was so
useful. And so having the shipyard team
have the tendrils of connection to
customer teams was so important.
>> So what I'm hearing is essentially
embrace chaos. things are going to get
only weirder. There's something I forget
who maybe the CPO at uh OpenAI said just
like it's only going to get weirder.
This is the least this is the most
normal the world will be.
>> It's going to be
>> Yep.
>> and and and and that's important because
if the world is weird and you want to
make sense of it, you need people who
are highly motivated, have the right
skill sets to continuously create it as
it moves, as it gets weird. Audrey, you
said uh EP I remember Lenny asked how
many you know what how what is what is
uh shipyard comprised of he said six
people person team I know that's going
to come up and people are going to go
sorry really why
>> six
capability team
>> right it is not a person thing
>> it is it's engineering how however many
you need again it's all about admission
it's PM it's design
>> it's the capabilities I'm I'm optimizing
for right it's data and ML
It's product marketing and it's a user
research. If PMs can't do it, you need
the capabilities and whether it's a
fractional person within matrix into
that EPD team or 10 people because of
developers. That's what you need.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So what I'm hearing there is uh it
roles will become blurriier that PMs
need to do more design, engineers need
to do more PMing, people need more data
skills. So I so th to me those are the
two takeaways is just learn to be more
comfortable with chaotic world just AI
con every week there's like oh this is
changing everything rethink the road map
>> and then also the roles will be less
>> divided people will need to learn to do
many roles and chip in
>> yes
>> awesome so building on that uh Ezine
when you hire PMs these days when you're
looking for product leaders
what do you is there something you're
looking for more and more because you
believe this will be more important to
be successful in a world where AI is
just changing everything.
>> I think Aji started uh he laid the
foundation when he said it's day one and
when you're working and thinking um
about building product in this type of
era of space it's important that you
remember that. So, I'm going to talk
about what it is that I typically will
look for from an attitudes, values, and
behaviors point of view as well as a
skills uh point of view. Um, I'm
currently working with uh a firm in LA
and we're building curriculum for their
PMs as well as helping them recruit. And
the things that we've honed honed in on
are
curiosity.
And I know it's been said over and over
again, but it matters more now. It is is
are people is this person humble and
curious enough to admit they don't know
and are willing to start as a learner.
Do they truly have a growth mindset
where they are okay
being taught by someone else no matter
how senior they have become? That is
very important. That humility and
curiosity mixed together. The second
part is what I'd call agency.
being able to see opportunity and not
ask others for permission to go execute
on that opportunity, but actually take
the opportunity themselves. Have a
strong um there's another word most
people use for this. Um it's not coming
to me, but just
>> take the bull take the bull
>> bull by the horn, but no, there's
another characteristic value behavior.
Um, but high agency,
being able to just move forward and feel
act like an owner, right? Ownership,
that's the word. High ownership. Um, but
I think ownership is seeing that you can
run. But I think agency assumes that you
control you. You're more of a thermostat
than a thermometer. And that means that
hey the thermometer is always measuring
the temperature of the room while a
thermos that will change the temperature
of the room. So I'm looking for that in
in people and I want people who can move
from a position of strength. It really
irked me when in 2024 most people were
saying AI is here and now the PM job is
gone and there were others who were
saying AI is here so now we can do the
things we don't like to do with AI and
then go focus on the things that we need
to do. So people who spoke that way are
the types of people I want on my team
from a skills perspective obviously an
understanding of data right just how how
high level of how is it organized how is
it leveraged in the in this new world of
AI um there's this skill of being able
to write evals I know everybody can
write prompts prompt engineering you can
try and focus the LLM so that it can uh
offer better insights and offer better
results but Even as your LM actually
provide pro produces results, you need
to verify that it actually is smart and
hasn't elucinated or gone off by
creating true evals, right? I those are
some hardcore skills. Being able to
constrain hallucination, knowing what
what ways you do that, being able to use
multiple models
um and figure out what is good about
this model versus that. Um, one of the
things I love to talk about is what what
does intelligence mean? Intelligence
often people say is connecting dots. And
the beauty of what it is that we have an
opportunity to do is that with AI you
can find you can train it so that it's
very specific to a very particular task,
right? It can become really smart in one
area. And the idea now is how do you
combine the smarts of what maybe Claude
does, right? with something that GPT
does better and make something even
greater than each of them. Right? So,
that's what one of the things I'm
looking for in a PM. And then being able
to tweak for best for performance,
whether it's choosing, whether it's just
fine-tuning, doing the weight
adjustments. Audi is very passionate
about this one. We talk about it quite a
bit. Um but that's the attitudes point
of view where you know just strong
ownership strong agency curiosity being
humble and then this idea of
understanding beyond prompts like you
know really knowing that AI is just
toolbox right and it can make major
mistakes and how do you constrain it
such that constrain it optimize it um
tweak it so that it can actually work on
your behalf and not
like it it you need to make it work for
you versus being lost in all the things
that it's able to do.
>> I love this answer and it resonates so
well with so many other people's uh
advice which is uh curiosity. Skills
that matter most and this actually
curiosity comes up a lot when I ask
people what skills are you focusing on
teaching your kids. Uh the number one uh
skill people mention is curiosity. Uh I
love that you included humbleness. I
want to come back to that. So
essentially, curiosity, humbleness,
agency, such a meme these days and what
PMs need to build and be strong at high
agency. So so great. And then eval I
like I like that a lot. That's also
super common. I have a really cool guest
post coming out really soon that'll
teach you more than you ever thought you
needed to know about how to become
really good at eval. But I want to
double down on something you just said
which uh I love uh so much which is this
idea of instead of waiting to see what
jobs AI takes, it's almost like the way
you phrased it essentially is what jobs
can you take as a PM? What can you do?
Can you do more engineering? Can you do
more design? Such an empowering way to
think about it.
>> Let me let me talk about something
that's really personal. Um I'm part of
the women in product organization and I
was asked to guess right uh end of last
year because there was a lot of fear in
the in the community and there was this
thing called the rise of the CTPO. It's
this thing it's been in the background
there where the I think many venture VCs
many pees were asking do I need but a
CPO as well as a CTO right and um I I
was always amazed at how many people
were leaned back in this in this thing
versus actually showing and proving the
value of what a CPO could be. So in many
places it is right that maybe you do
only want one person particularly when
it's very wellknown spaces right it's
clear they're not doing anything
revolutionary but it's like saying an
engineer is the same as a product person
when you think about it that way there
is a conflict between the CPO and the
CTO that actually drives innovation in
my opinion because one person is trying
to optimize the resourcing the fixed
right while another person is actually
trying to field opportunities and figure
out how to wait and decide what is best
to do at the higher level. That is their
those are their jobs and that tension is
really good because you you need them to
sharpen each other as you try to
maximize the value of your organiza of
the organization. I say all this to say
that there are folks who are not
stopping to figure out what how do we
make the pie bigger but they're looking
at instead how do we divide this pie as
it gets smaller versus asking the
question of really what is the
opportunity to increase this for all of
us and that is a skill set I also look
out for.
>> Awesome. I'm gonna I'm gonna go to Yaji
in a second but I want to come back on
this humble idea. I haven't heard this
before. Why is why is it why do you find
it really important for people to be
humble? I haven't heard that piece of
advice yet.
>> Oh my gosh. Um particularly now it is
really important to be um because I
would say okay I I went to school I
actually did neural networks in school
when I was doing a project and you know
you get to this part of your career
where you go I kind of know a lot of
what product is and I do see folks who
are not willing to go sign up for that
new junior AI PM's course because
they're a CPO or they're head of product
or they're X Y or Z or they're a
principal PM now and I think that that's
a mistake. I think that it's important
to realize that you don't know
everything, you can't know everything.
And even as a leader, CPO, head of
product, etc. I I come from this school
uh where I believe that in order to lead
an organization, sometimes you actually
need do need to know how to do the work.
And I think I lead better that way. So
being able to sign up and say, you know
what, let me sit in and figure out how
we're going to build this thing and
number one learn for yourself, but also
figure out what questions other PMs are
asking in that course, right? So it's
about taking courses from people you may
have considered uh junior, figuring out
and sitting and reading books that you
thought you you know, just going back to
the day one of how do you build product
in in an AI world. So that's where
humility comes to play in in this period
where we are. It's you just don't know
everything, can't know everything, and
things will change faster than you're
able to uh stay ahead of. So lean on
your team as well. I just had uh this
guy Chip Connelly on the podcast. He's
in his 60s. He joined Airbnb in when he
was 52 as an intern and he said exactly
the same thing. to be successful. And
it's interesting as a metaphor as an
older person, you need to be really good
at being open to learning from people
younger than you. And that's a really
interesting, I think, lens and heristic
almost for just people that aren't as AI
savvy yet. Uh just leaning into that
idea of just like, okay, I can actually
learn a lot from people around me, even
if they're much younger than me.
>> Okay. So Audi, something else that I
think that you're really good at and
you've been spending time on that I
think is also really important is
getting super hands-on with the tech.
Not just like reading and not just
listening to podcasts like this, not
just reading newsletters, but like
actually building stuff. Talk about just
like why that's important. What you've
been doing to learn and to stay ahead
and not just be like a pontificator guy
in the clouds.
>> I just love, you know, everything we've
said in the last few minutes. You know I
you know I think the shortand I have for
humility is humility is teachability.
Um and when do you need teachability?
You need teachability when
you know sort of
everything has changed where there is no
blueprint. And whatever you think is a
blueprint of AI in the last few years,
you know, whether oh wow, Lavable is so
successful, Replet is so successful,
it's actually quite possible that any
one of those companies won't be around
in 2 three years, right? Because we're
still writing the playbook for what
success looks like. So humility is
teachability and teachability is
survivability. If you're thinking about
careers and if you also if you're
thinking about building something that's
important is also important like that.
Um in terms of how we
how to keep your hand sharp
uh what what I would say is a couple of
things. One is I have written Izzy and I
both have a masters engineering but we
very quickly figured out that the thing
that we were gifted at was
in helping to invent the future where
customers thinking you know how do we
work with developers to do that and so
we've been PMs forever and being a PM
means that even though we could we don't
write code we work with developers we
work with other people in the market but
I've written more code in the last one
year than I have in the last 10 years
because code is now essentially
architecture and English or whatever
language that you have. And so what does
that mean? I've taken the opportunity to
write more code. I've taken the
opportunity to convert PRD writing into
prototype writing. I've taken the
opportunity to write more API interfaces
and actually call those API interfaces
with Postman myself. I've taken the
opportunity to
subscribe to all the AI tools, right?
and take that as a cost of learning so
that I can understand what each model is
useful for. I've taken the opportunity
to understand MCPS right and connect
different things to it like right now
one of my pet projects one of the things
I do in order to learn is I pick a
project that it's almost like writing an
eval was an eval for my life to learn is
I'll take a pick a project that touches
a lot of the things that I need to learn
that I'm interested and passionate about
and as I get into it because of my
passion I start to learn more and more
and so one of the passion projects I've
had I have is to automate my house. So,
I've been doing this for years and
years, but now I'm trying to build a
very smart house run on a processor that
has AI chip and inference in it
while the house looks dumb. So, because
I don't want anyone to know about it and
so what am I doing? I'm bu getting
models. I am think learning about how to
what quantization of those models means.
I am learning how to fine-tune some of
them. I'm feeding them. I'm building an
MCP server in my house that talks to the
home entities and then I can collaborate
with Claude on how to build and make it
sort of super dynamic. Uh but beyond
that, you know, one of the things we're
spending time on is a venture studio
raising and raising capital for a
venture studio because that's what I
want to spend the next decade on
building seinal AI companies beyond the
book. I'm collaborating with some of the
smartest people in AI right now who can
teach me
how to do this, how to write agents,
what agents really mean. And so
everything, as I said, writing evals,
being humble, going back after 25 years
of being a PM to being teachable is how
I stay sharp.
>> I want to to go back to this house. What
do you what do you what is your house
doing? How how smart is this house? The
the idea is that um I give the house
eyes and ears and it senses.
The coolest thing is I've specked out
what I call like a super sensor. It will
see people. It will feel the heat. It
will hear them. It will sense humidity
and temperature. And it'll just be
scattered around the house. All right.
And I'm building the hardware myself.
And basically as you walk into the
house, it starts to adapt itself to you,
right? It manages energy in the house.
It knows you're in a room. If you leave,
my kids are not in their in in their
rooms right now. Well, the HVAC around
them just stopped and said, "No, they're
not here. The when they come back,
before they come back, an hour before
they come back, it starts to precool
their space. And then when they come
back, it says, "Oh, they're here." And
it starts to do cool things. So, there's
a lot of stuff like that that a
building. And the question is, you don't
want that to be completely inflexible.
You want it to be super dynamic and
super human. And so that's part of the
AI.
>> I I am the recipient of all of this, but
I
like I I woke up at 1:00 a.m. and I want
toast. Why is the toast not working?
Because he shut off the power,
right?
No, but look at look is in there walks
into lots of rooms in the house and the
light just turns on and when she leaves
she just walks out and then it knows
she's not there and it turns it off and
she's taking it for granted.
>> It's actually doing all this. Wow.
>> It is. It is.
>> But there's also like a horror movie
version of this.
>> Yes, there is.
>> Well, I what I will say is that my
family should not piss me off because
you know I could do crazy things to
them.
Sorry.
>> Oh man. Okay.
>> And this is built on like a like an LLM
that you trained. Is that is that what
what the powers is?
>> So multiple levels. There's this open-
source software called Home Assistant
that I use and you can uh it's very
extensible. So I can put in like
fine-tune LLMs. I can use uh the big
LLMs. the there there are things like
smaller like spoken whisper models you
can use to like I can just say hey
Jarvis like Iron Man and it it'll the
house will start talking to me and
telling me things about what's going on.
So things like that
>> uh getting us back on track but
>> you guys are geeking out right now.
>> I'm excited and scared to visit this
house.
>> So that's my dad.
>> Get this out of me. Uh, what I love
about this is this is something that
I've seen a bunch is having a very
specific problem to solve for yourself
is a really good way to build and and
get into these tools because you're
motivated to solve a problem and it's
like a specific thing that you're doing
versus just generally I'm going to go
sit around and play with lovable.
>> No, I I I think I want to double click
on that, Lenny. I was telling you the
other time that uh we spoke that I get a
lot of questions from I I would say
people who aren't very familiar with
with AI and they don't know where to
start and that is exactly what I say.
It's like hey I know you love fashion
for example right or you you like um
reading right and you have the the the
you you actually have the database of
the entire Austin library or whatever it
is online and you can pull it if you
really want to and it can recommend
based on your feelings. So you can
create a project around what it is that
you're passionate about. One particular
woman um older lady u wanted to figure
this out. I I I and figure out a passion
project and I knew she liked this idea
called outfit of the day. So with LLMs,
she started a project where she actually
had she took the time to take all her
tops, all her bottoms, all her dresses,
all her shoes, and now she's working on
based on the temperature having
recommendations of her outfit for the
day. So that's one way she was able to
find something that she loved and could
take a you know leverage AI to build and
that could help her determine okay what
should I or what are the options I
should consider for today.
>> That's an amazing example.
>> Can I just make like one you know I'm
always like high concept prediction guy.
So I'm going to make one prediction. I
think that
you know in the next few years a lot of
a lot of high agency people not just PMs
will essentially be writing the software
that automates their lives right and so
the one man SAS is going to go away
because the ability to there'll be 100
million developers because we will
people who really care will automate
their lives they will build applications
that just works for them and the the
advice for PMs is that we should be the
vinegard with that because if we can
start doing that for ourselves, we'll be
able to do that for software that hits a
million people because that's the way to
get started. And you know, I want to we
also want to offer hope. It's still day
one. Meaning that no matter how far, you
know, if you hear me and hear about fine
cheating and home assistant and all this
crazy hardware that I'm trying to build
and you're scared, you're like, I'm
behind.
Uh you're not behind. You're not behind.
People who seem like they're succeeding.
We were here when you know inter the
internet dropped and everyone you know
Microsoft thought it was behind and you
know with social people some people
thought they were behind the people who
seem like they're off the gate fastest
whether it's a company or person and
other people who win and so it's the
wisest and the most dedicated that win
and so people should just start you know
evil people we have a proverb that says
whenever you wake up is your morning and
so just wake up and go. Uh, I love so
much of the advice you two are sharing.
There's a there's a post I'm going to
link to in the show notes that shares a
bunch of examples of what people are
vibe coding, building with AI. That
seems to be the biggest challenge for a
lot of people is just like, what should
I actually do? And something that I
realized as I was putting that together
is people think about like, oh, can you
build real products and businesses on
bold lovable replet? But interestingly,
most people just want to build a thing
that solves a specific problem for
themselves. And sometimes that turns
into a thing. But there's almost a
bigger opportunity just to build a
personal software. Uh similar to the
example you shared as there's a site
someone built this like how many layers
should I wear today.com or whatever. I
don't think that's actual domain and
it's just like three. And that's
sometimes all you need to know. Today's
episode is brought to you by KOD. I
personally use KOD every single day to
manage my podcast and also to manage my
community. It's where I put the
questions that I plan to ask every guest
that's coming on the podcast. It's where
I put my community resources. It's how I
manage my workflows. Here's how KOD can
help you. Imagine starting a project at
work and your vision is clear. You know
exactly who's doing what and where to
find the data that you need to do your
part. In fact, you don't have to waste
time searching for anything because
everything your team needs from project
trackers and OKRs to documents and
spreadsheets lives in one tab all in
KOD. With Kota's collaborative
all-in-one workspace, you get the
flexibility of docs, the structure of
spreadsheets, the power of applications,
and the intelligence of AI, all in one
easy to organize tab. Like I mentioned
earlier, I use KOD every single day, and
more than 50,000 teams trust KOD to keep
them more aligned and focused. If you're
a startup team looking to increase
alignment and agility, KOD can help you
move from planning to execution in
record time. To try it for yourself, go
to kod.io/enny. io/lenny today and get 6
months free of the team plan for
startups. That's cooda.io/lenny
to get started for free and get six
months of the team plan. kota.io/lenny.
So, let me take this opportunity to zoom
out a little bit. We've been talking a
lot about personal skills, what you
think people need to get better at, what
takes to be successful. I want to talk
about at the company level. You two work
with a bunch of different companies.
You've both worked at a bunch of
different companies. When you look at
the companies that seem to be doing well
in this new AI world, adopting the best
practices, seeing productivity gains
versus the companies that are just
struggling and not getting anywhere and
just having a hard time, what do you
find is most common across the one the
companies that are succeeding shifting
their culture and the way they work in
this world of AI? And I'll I'll throw
this to Ezene first.
I think the the main thing I will say is
um recognizing companies that recognize
that AI
is a core set of multiple capabilities
that they've been gifted. I think that
you need to understand that it is not
this magic thing that you're going to
slather on to your product and it will
do perfectly. The problems are still the
problems. The customer is still the pro
is still the customer and their pain or
sharp problems still exist as they they
have. The idea now is how do you take AI
and not have it be something we call it
you put at the edge alone but you
actually retransform the way you solve
the customer's problem. So we have this
phrase called AI at the core and AI at
the edge. And the f the best way to
think about it is that with AI at the
edge, you're probably still using
software as you always have. The bits
and bites that you wrote before still
are there. You're instead inserting
LLMs or AI at different intersections or
connection points. Okay. AI at the core
means fundamentally
looking at the problem space and the
workflows and using AI to solve the
problem. Not just sprinkling it at the
intersections of you know guies or user
interfaces that are out there or using
it to just accelerate things. So the way
we talk about it is that
companies where their codebase remains
and they are attaching
uh AI to it often aren't the ones who
are going to revolutionize uh the their
industry.
Companies for whom their code base
perhaps shrinks and the LLM becomes a
core part of what it is that they use to
solve the problem are companies that
actually are doing it right. Another uh
characteristic is specificity.
We've seen a lot of companies want to do
so many things and expect LLMs to be as
broad as the problem sets they want to
solve for. And we in our experience have
seen that to do that you actually will
need to have
specialized
first and then create a layer of a
connective tissue that can offer
intelligence. So we've seen companies
instead just stay on top try to build
this massive solution set or LLM that
can do it all. But the successful ones
that we've consulted with, partnered
with, are talking to are those who
instead have seen, you know what, I can
find I can build with this team that I
have on here can actually build this
very specific solution set. This other
team can do this. And then my job is to
tie it all together with a broader uh
multi-
model solution um and build it and
create an offering for the customer. I
think those are two core things. I'm
sure Audi can remember a few others.
>> No, I think No, I I I I love I I was
humble in listening to you.
No. Um,
so maybe I'll I I'll embellish the
point. We're seeing companies that are
starting from a blank slate, taking an
old problem, a sharp problem, and
saying, "If we built it today
with LM as the core capability, as a
core sort of blob of code, how would it
look?" And often these people are
finding a lot of acceleration and
they're actually like taking on
adjacencies. in a formless type form,
you know, a new product built by uh
David Okunv and, you know, and me and a
small group of people. We built a new
type form and we ended up building more
than it because it also became like a
sales lead agent. So like it did
pre-sales which ordinarily type form
gets you in to qualification before you
talk to a salesperson, but the product
itself did pre-sales. that capability
was so strong. We're also seeing the
shrinking thing.
It's funny in the last week, I've seen
companies that have been around for 5
years who once LLMs came, they just
reimagined their product. Like Clay.AI
has is a six-year-old company, super
successful. Um, so in the first category
is like things like Lovable, but the
second category, people who are like,
okay, we're going to rethink this and
we're going to do it. Um now the problem
for the rest of the industry is
there's you know dilemma they have lots
of revenue tied to old code bases and so
they their job is to and you know we
tell PM leaders all the time is to
navigate how you use LLM on the old
thing but navigate to the new thing
before someone eats your lunch and it's
not it's complicated it's hard but you
have to do it. Now let me make maybe a
couple of smaller things. Um the people
who are succeeding are taking chances on
user experiences. We don't believe the
chat interface is the final boss for AI
user experience. We think that there's a
reason viewers exist and the command
line didn't work otherwise DOSs will be
the biggest operating system. Uh and so
people have to do different things uh
and be dynamic. You know one of the big
things is dynamic user experiences that
just personalize to the customer. uh so
we'll see a lot of uh we see a lot of
people succeeding there and one of the
things that we don't see people doing
actually that we want people to do is
something as mentioned which is ethics
you know like we think of AI and its
core capabilities as ordinance level
meaning like
at at some point we'll think of this as
more powerful than the the fusion the
fusion bomb and we have a bunch of
software people who have no consider
consideration of ethics, playing with
this stuff all the time. And so one
thing we'd like to see the be best
companies do is lead on that like think
about the responsibility we have to the
human race when we build new digital
products that will give them
superpowers.
>> I want to zoom out even further.
So we started talking about individual
people skills, what's going to be most
important. And we've been talking rec
just now about what companies are doing
well, the ones that are succeeding in
this crazy new world of AI. I want to
now zoom out just your entire product
career. I'm curious just when you look
back at the 50 plus years of combining
experience you two have, what are some
of the biggest product lessons that have
you that you've learned that you would
love to share that you think people can
avoid having to learn the hard way? I I
think what I want to reiterate the thing
that we talked about sharp problems
your the problem you focus on is
probably the most predictive of your
success. Pick a sharp problem. Pick
something that if you really solve it
people will come. You know is watching
Jeff Bezos from the 80s feels precient.
He's like look people always shop. I'm
going to be the guy right and he and he
did it. So do that. uh and I say this
humbly because I've failed because
sometimes we build things that we are
passionate about but being a founder is
not an exercise and even an operator in
a company it's not an exercise in your
passion and your brilliance it's an
exercise in finding what the market
needs so do that be disciplined in doing
that we also talk about simplicity a lot
um even this morning I was talking to a
designer and he had a convoluted
uh user experience and I said only 20% %
of people who come to this will see that
and so the point of design is first
simplicity and clarity before we get
fancy and so there's a lot Steve Jobs
embodied this fairly on I think iOS has
become complicated but like start with
simplicity and simple is hard
um and in 2025 we're designing for
distracted brains there a couple of
things are happening people are super
distracted people are no longer wowed by
technology. You call it AI all you want.
They just assume that it is what it is.
And so simplicity is really good for
2025 and beyond basically. Um
and then you know we talk a lot about
fundamentals. I'm going to throw this to
is in there. Like there are ways to
figure out the fundamentals what we do.
I know we operate in the software layer
but at its most basic we're trying to
predict what humans would do, what they
will want, how their soft, you know,
workflow will go and there's some
there's some,
you know, uh there's a there's a layer
of that that is quite similar, you know,
because our friends, the anthropologists
and the psychologists really understand
this and I think if we understand it, we
can build better software. So, but I'm
going to let you uh I'm just going to
throw this off to you so I don't take up
all the space. Go for it.
>> No, I think I think you're on to
something about um just so when I think
about
the hard lessons I've learned, you
talked about simplicity
and I'm saying this also from humility
and just having learned a lot from past
failures.
One of the reasons people create
complicated solutions is because they're
afraid to make take a stab to to to put
their point of view opinionated. They're
not
>> opinionated. They're not opinionated
enough
>> and that often comes from not having
high conviction because you're not sure
that you've spent the time with the
customer. So with that, I know it sounds
trit, but spend time and understand the
customer or borrow from others who do,
but you've got to not just lay it all
out and have them choose which way
because it is so effing confusing.
>> 10,000 options because you can't pick
one.
>> Yeah. The experience is so murky,
chalky, nobody knows what the hell to do
because you can't make a decision. Make
it simple. Come up come up with an
opinion and put your opinion out there.
You can change. Leave the configurations
and the options behind. Leave them
behind the scenes if you must, but try
and create the most compelling, the
simplest experience, and you will
actually have better adoption. You're
better off doing that and being wrong.
Many times we leave and ship convoluted
experiences because we don't have the
the the courage number one to make a
decision, create a point of view and
ship it out there. The reality is and my
experience has shown that you're better
off
picking an opinion, shipping it shipping
it out there, being wrong and then
adjusting that leaving too many options
because you then can never learn what
was the better experience overall. So
that's one thing. The other
major lesson I've learned is actually
one about strategy. It is that
the best way to go from strategy to
execution in a way that activates the
entire organization is communication.
you you will never never spend too much
time communicating
the why to your organization over and
over and over again. I I don't remember
what movie it was. I think it was uh
the movie about sending someone to the
moon, right?
um
I'm forgetting what it is, but the idea
that everybody in NASA knew that we were
working to send a man to the moon. Even
the janitor did knew that. So that idea
of ensuring that everybody in the team
understands the why behind what we're
doing and can speak to it. I saw
something on LinkedIn the other day. I
think it was Martin Ericson who actually
push posted this. It talked about how
the same way we talk about crossing the
chasm and figuring out who it is that
will adopt a product, we should think
about the change management required for
strategy communication through that
lens. They will be early adopters. Think
about those people. Those people will
hear the message, the strategy, and by
the time others are just beginning to
understand what it is, they're probably
on the next version of the strategy
asking what can change, what should
change. And that was so clarifying for
me cuz I always wondered why strategy
could get muddy sometimes is because
when you look at your entire population
about 5% are going to be the early
adopters. They get it. They buy into it
and they're moving. Four months later
they're on to something wondering what
the next version of the strategy will
look like. How do we build on top of
this? At that same time some people are
just beginning to get it. And honestly,
that answered a lot of questions for me
as to how it is that you can be working
on a strategy, some people get it, can
recite it, tell you why we're doing what
we're doing, while some PMs are still
struggling with why, how come can we do
this? Because there are in fact lagards
out there. So that idea of trying to
really activate a strategy into pure
execution. If you think about
communication as a critical element and
then also look at it as how many people
what is the crossing the chasm version
who is at what point in this change
management journey. I think that is
actually that that was one of the major
lessons I've learned as a leader in
product. I love these sorts of
conversations where you two spend 50
years learning and then you just tell us
here's all the answers. Here's a bunch
of stuff that'll save you a bunch of
pain and suffering. Let me try to
summarize what you shared and tell me
what I missed. So, some of the biggest
things you two have learned over the
past 50 years and all it's not in the
right order, but uh communicating the
why, making that you never you can never
spend too much time helping people
understand why why what you're working
on is important. And then there's just
the change management component of not
underestimating the work that it'll take
to convince people uh to adopt
something. And then this whole idea of
crossing the chasm. We had Jeffrey Moore
in the podcast. So we'll point to that
if you want to deeply understand what
that's all about. Then this lesson of
simplicity just keep per just the value
of keeping things simple. Easier said
than done and having an opinion having
the courage almost to do something
really simple not give people all the
options. And then this uh Agie meant you
talked about the idea of most times when
something fails it's the wrong you're
going after the wrong problem. It's not
sharp enough or it's just not solving
people something people actually care
about. And then just talking to
customers uh always easy to say most
people don't actually do it enough.
>> I want to add one more thing and I'll be
brief. This is more more uh about
people's careers like PMs. In our
career, we have, you know, we started
out as engineers basically, became
mainline PMs, got an MBA, became, you
know, worked harder, became executives
and so on and so forth. So, some, you
know, people look at my career as an
industry and they're like, "Oh, this is
amazing." But behind that is a lot of
intention. Like, we always
held in our brains, what do we want to
do next? like what is the next step?
What is the hunger that drives us? And
there's nothing more powerful
and than intention than like
imagination. It's like, you know, a
little bit of cheese in front of the
mouse like it chases after. Being able
to visualize and chase the thing that
you see about where you want to be is so
powerful. I talked to uh a guy who gave
me a break. So when I was, you know, the
last two years of my time at Microsoft,
I switched to become a marketing lead
because I as a little t of PM at
Microsoft specifically and I was getting
an MBA and I talked to Dave Mendlin. He
was a vice president, you know, or
senior director in the worked, you know,
eventually for SATA and he gave me a
break and became a product marketer over
a couple of years. But I he came back
and talked to me this year and he said
Ojie everything you told me you wanted
to do
from afar I saw that you have done and
you told me about them 10 years ago and
I didn't even know that and so it's very
powerful thing I think that this is not
just about how to build better products
but how to manage your own career is
super important. I just went to a talk
uh storytelling event and there was a
very similar theme. This guy just always
wanted to be a stand-up comedian and he
the lesson he learned is just you need
to the ba the best motivator is desire.
Having des having that desire not fade
because that'll it's kind of like going
back to our idea of the project. Having
a project to work on because you need a
problem solved uh is a really good way
to just get to where you want to go.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh as I think you had something else you
wanted to add.
>> Yeah. you know, you you you said this
thing about, you know, know the
customer, know the customer, and I think
there's a lot of there's a lot of noise
out there about customer interviews,
etc., right? But I do want to remind
people that there's a difference between
what the customer says, right? Customer
discovery, asking them things, right?
And AI is really good at that right now.
Like you can help you get all the
transcriptions, but just remember that
what they do is actually more important.
So earlier in my career um I had the
opportunity to have a UX lab that I
worked in and ethnographic research
watching what people truly were doing
still is topnotch. It's the best thing
you can ever do. So how what does that
look like digitally? It's still the core
instrumentation figuring out how people
finish things. But also, true customer
insight comes from not
using AI to read all the transcripts of
your customer interviews. That isn't
what it is. It's actually trying to
figure out how to best walk in their
shoes. And whatever it takes, you've got
to figure out how to do that because
it's not what they say they do. It's not
what they say they want. Those are
that's not the true intimacy you want
with a customer. you actually want to
observe them as much as possible and
understand the why behind the actions
they're taking. And I I think that's a
really important thing to point out
right now because I think people are
cheating with AI through interviews,
etc., and thinking that they're going to
figure it out. But there's a different
type of insight that comes from what I
call true ethnographic research or
studying, observing, understanding the
driver behind their need, their their
their problem or the need that they're
trying to solve. Um, and I just want to
make sure we say that because I think
people think AI has come to save it all,
but no, it's going to give you junk
because people don't always say what
they mean or they don't realize that
they're lying about their reasons for
doing a thing.
>> I think some of these lessons,
especially that last one, is the kind of
lesson that you can hear it and be like,
"Yeah, yeah, I get it." And then you
have to actually learn it and and find
the times. Oh, wow. Okay, everyone told
me they wanted this thing and nobody
actually used it. Okay, I remember as I
said that on a podcast. Oh, I get it
now. And so I think, you know, there's
only so much we can do to help people
learn these things. Sometimes you just
have to fail the pain to learn.
>> Okay. Is there anything that we have not
touched on? Anything that you wanted to
share before we get to our very exciting
lightning round?
>> I think we didn't talk about ethics. And
as you know, people of color and
parents,
I think that having having a call to
action for our PMs to really be
thoughtful about what it is they're
building and and what it is they're
integrating into their product is really
important to to us.
>> We just want to call PMs that this
awesome power we have to direct lots of
developers comes with responsibility.
You know, the spider trope and um you
know, we created social media. I worked
at Twitter and I always like oh my god
like how many mistakes do we make? Like
I remember the person who invented deep
fakes was interviewed one time and she
said and they're like what are the
implications of your stuff? And she's
like I don't care and I was so shocked.
I was like what software engineer you
don't care? She's like oh it's all
invented countermeasure. I'm like oh my
god. So PMS we shouldn't be like that.
Um we shouldn't be like that. I I guess
the one thing I also wanted to say is
like one pain point we hear a lot is
strategy. the PMs who are like senior PM
principal PM worry about oh my god how
can I do product strategy and um in the
book we talk a lot about the sources of
strategy and there's a it's not
mysterious I think there are things you
need to learn about like the sources of
competitive advantage and even what that
means like you know intellectual
property or like um economies of scale
economies of scope because there's no
formal education about this stuff PMs
don't have the fundamental they need
because you know it's easy to learn
customer discovery but like learning the
seven levers of competitive advantage
maybe you've never seen or learning the
10 ways that companies can grow which is
not just product sometimes it's
distribution sometimes it's superior
business strategy and these are ideas
that if PMs had good material and it's
sort of like packed in the middle of
business school you can actually become
a person who helps direct your company
on where to go and do it in such a way
that's so compelling you can talk about
it that you know it's good for your
career. I remember Lenny I think one
time I saw maybe a long time ago I saw
something you're written around how do
you make money you know you sell a thing
you rent a thing you know there there
many people think that it's there are
many many like it's this amorphous thing
but you may not have the truly
exhaustive list right but there are
fixed number of things that you can know
to create strategy to make money and
just doing the work or doing the
research to figure out okay hey how How
does one make money? How does one get
competitive advantage?
>> In the book, we wrote about 10 growth
levers and seven levels of competitive
advantage. And I think if you master
that, you have like 80% of your tool set
that makes you a compelling
director, CPO that can play at that
level. Um, and it's super important.
Otherwise, you're sort of guessing.
You're like, "Oh, did this deck work for
my CEO?" No, that's not what you should
think about it. I I'll point to the post
that you're mentioning as that uh is all
the ways to make money but let's use
this opportunity to talk about your book
just what people would get out of it why
they should buy it do the pitch and then
we'll get to the very exciting lightning
round
>> in our career 50 plus years we when we
started this product management thing we
thought oh this is going to be
mainstream there's development there 30
million developers whatever and it was
going to be product managers all over
the world but operating in the US
operating in
Europe in Africa. It turns out the best
PM is sort of ghettoed somewhere in the
west coast of the United States, right?
We know this and we don't like that at
all, right? We think opportunity should
be everywhere. So, we wrote building
rocket ships to help people figure out
how to build not only great products but
companies that build great products to
make sure that people have the knowledge
not to be one hit wonders. And the book
is divided into two. One is the
fundamentals. If you're a senior to
principal PM, the fundamentals of
building a great product, right? All the
way from simplicity to even pricing. And
then the second part is how do you lead
a high-erforming shipyard and how do you
go from
motivating people to
charting the course for the future
depending on where you're in the market
to
making you know like is said to
commanding a shipyard that is kickass
that's that's the book and um you know
in the latter part we also talk about
like what's going to happen in terms of
AI over the next few years. Um, so we
are, it's called Building Rocket Ships.
We're very proud of it. It's right over
here. And, um, we think it's awesome
because it represents a lot of, uh, of,
of, of the experience that we've had
over these years and a lot of success.
>> And where do folks find it if they want
to go check it out, maybe even buy one
or two or 10 or 100?
>> Some companies have been buying a lot
actually uh, in bulk. So, this is a note
for the companies, but you can buy it on
Amazon. Uh, you can find it on Shopify.
on Shopify. If you go for it, you will
there's an additional pro edition. The
pro edition is like a team product. It
the book is on koda.io and you can share
it with your team. You can take notes.
There's almost double the amount of
content because it contains checklists
uh
um templates, tools for PMs that they
can download and just use immediately.
It's almost like code for you for your
PM career. We have the the book and then
we have the kod version. And one of the
things we really worked on was making it
actionable. So the minute you
if you get the kod version um you can
read a chapter and then you'll have
templates, frameworks, step checklists,
whatever it is that we felt made sense.
Um we made that available via the coded
version.
>> What a motherload of value. Where people
always have a issue saying the do the
URL on podcast. I just want to make
sure. What's that? How do you actually
find this version? You said it's on
Shopify, but there's probably a domain
name to get there.
>> So, if you go to
dubdubdub.protomind.co/brpro,
you can buy the pro edition.
And if you've bought it, you can also
use it to log to the KOD edition and
you're off to the races.
>> There we go. Amazing. We'll also link to
it in the show notes. And with that,
we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you, too. Are you ready?
>> Yes.
>> First question is, what are two or three
books you find yourself recommending
most to other people?
>> We just did one. Building rocket ships.
>> Building rocket ships is the first one.
So, we're not afraid to self-promote.
But also, the other one for me is Build
Tony Fidel. You know, I ran into Tony um
in Nigeria building an accelerator and
uh he it was just incredible book. I
totally recommend it.
>> One for me and it's both for work and
life etc. is this one called the let
them theory I think it was Mel Robbins.
I I love it. I just think that many
times PMs are control freaks or a type
and um being able to leave people to
their own devices sometimes is hard. So
let them reminds us that we get a lot
more uh rest for ourselves when we let
people be. I was just listening to that
book on audio. I was like, it's sitting
at the top of the bestseller like every
freaking week. What is this book and
it's so good. I sat in your background
actually. I noticed that you're reading
it. Uh yeah, it's so good. It's such a
simple idea and the thing I learned at
listening to it is there's a second part
to it that isn't just let them. I don't
know. Got to Yeah, I did. It's about let
me let me. Yeah, exactly.
>> Such a good I've been using it. It's
really powerful. I get why it's I didn't
I mean the book is good. Yeah, let's
give her credit. But it's such a simple
thing that other people in in many
religions etc have have used. But she
grounds she grounds she makes she she
she shows you why it's necessary and how
we how we show up trying to control
others in other in situations that are
very common to most people. So I like
that.
>> I never thought of it in the PM context.
That is very cool. And this by Mel
Robinson by the way. Okay. Next
question. Is there a favorite recent
movie or TV show that you really
enjoyed?
>> So we watch a few shows together
recently. So, I would say uh one that we
loved and we couldn't we kept saying
gosh I we can't wait for our kids to be
old enough to watch it was one called
Forever.
It's it was just really really good. Um
it's uh it's a love story. It's uh one
of these it was a book reimagined um
done from a African-American point of
view. It just really well done. So
that's a TV show is called Forever. And
another one that we really like cuz I
think it was Sterling K. Brown is
Paradise. Really enjoyed it. It was
interesting. It kept us
>> excellent. It kept us uh Yeah. Aie, what
about you?
>> Man is in a row. And then the movie that
we've been geeking out on is Sinners. Uh
we just love Sinners. I think I saw it
twice. My son son saw it like three or
four times. Um we're just big fans of
Cougler and the way he tells stories. So
we love that. I've I've seen both those
two uh recently and they're both have
very unexpected they go unexpected
directions like why did I see this
coming?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Oh man. Yeah, that movie is beautiful
sinners. I was like wow. And then but I
I really hate scary movies. Uh I enjoyed
that one. Someone else recently
mentioned that movie too actually
>> on the podcast. Next question. Do you Is
there a favorite product you recently
discovered that you really love? Could
be a gadget, could be clothes, could be
kitchen device. Could be an app.
>> I I'll start mean I love Claude. It's
like Audrey says it's my sidekick. I use
it for anything and everything. Um, but
I, you know, obviously the thing you
learn is don't, even though keep talking
about it as generative AI, be the
generator and let it refine. That's the
major trick. You know, that's the hack
everybody should learn.
>> Super hack. Don't generate.
>> Generate first and let it refine and let
it help you. Otherwise, you're going to
get Sorry.
>> That's a really good tip.
And one I I'll say I have this new
Nespresso machine, the Virtuo that Audi
got for me. Everybody is using it now
and I'm kind of pissed cuz but it's
still my favorite product. But
everybody's in it. You know the reason
is I normally like keeping it really
clean and shiny and now that everybody's
using it, it's not as clean and shiny as
it used to be.
>> When she says everybody, she means
everyone else in the house. She wants to
use it by herself to be clear.
>> She needs a second version just for
herself.
>> Yeah, we need another one. And then the
the plebs and the plura can use the
other ones. That's what it is.
>> When they're good, when they're
>> make all my lattes, hot, cold, all of
that stuff. I love it. Hi, what about
you? I
>> I just like using like these new air
tools that have improved my life like
GMA is good. Framer is also good. um get
into Lovable because I sort of like say
using the hardcore stuff and so using
Lovable felt like a little step down it
a little bit but like um Olama LM Studio
these are ways that I used to do my
hobby of improving the house. Um but
also I'm super into local models the
these open source models running them
because I feel like I can put them in
different places. Uh, so LM Studio and
Olama are just favorite things. Um, so
yeah, those are some of the things I'm
vibing on.
>> Gamma and Lovable get a year free by
becoming a paid subscriber of my
newsletter. Uh, we'll link to that.
Little did you know,
>> I heard about Lovable. I didn't know
about Gamma. I should
>> absolutely
maybe Framer someday. There's a lot
going on there. Check it out.
lenniesnewletter.com. Click product
pass. Okay. Uh, two more questions. Is
there a favorite life motto that you two
find really useful and come back to in
work or in life?
>> So, I'll give you I'll say two and one
has been from childhood. My mother had a
little plaque in our house that said
anything worth doing is worth doing
well. And it's so funny. I just I assume
that that's how everybody lives, but I
realize now that it isn't. So, I I come
back to that all the time. And then, so
I'll say that came from my mother. But
the one I think I've adopted and
probably just general upbringing is um
this thing that anywhere you are make
better. So it's like by being there um
I've made it better. And it's simp
simple things like you walk into a
bathroom. It's nasty. Try and clean up
if you can. It's it's that simple.
>> Beautiful.
>> Um but it's something I I live with and
I live by.
>> Audrey, what you got?
You know, I I I mentioned one already,
which is whenever you wake up is your
morning. So like I I I try I try to
spend very little time looking backwards
except to mind the lessons of it and
then just move forward because the
universe and the forward motion is
infinite. And so there's an evil
proverb.
So I want to say that. Um well the other
thing I think I learned from my dad uh
is just like learn all the time but
doesn't mean that you should be
not confident you know is this idea that
there's more knowledge outside your
brain than inside it and that doesn't
mean you should be in a crouch. In fact,
you should be proud of being called
stupid for a second because you we're
all stupid at something, right? In the
sense that we don't know. There's so
many things we don't know because we're
finite. But do that and still be
confident. So you can learn but still
have a sense of self on what you've
accomplished. And so I try to live by
that every day.
>> I love that you each had two and they're
both so wonderful.
Uh unfortunately, final question.
something that I like to do with duo
guests. Uh I I switch between two types
of questions. So I'm going to ask you
this one. What's something you love
about the other person?
>> I love that Audi lives in the future and
um as obviously I get the benefit of
this. Uh we get to plan
um he's very intentional about the
future and uh it just makes
us move together with intention um for
as partners in life as well as even with
our our company. I think that is
something I really appreciate about him.
>> So sweet.
>> So uh there are two things I love about
Zena. One is she is I think she's very
accepting loving person. She's nice.
Like when I introduce her, I say, "Look,
you're going to talk to her and you're
going to forget about me because she's
10 times nicer than I am. I'm not I'm
not a horrible person, but she's just
way nicer than I am." And so that's
that's great. The second thing is
something that people don't know about
her is that she's a great problem
solver, right? Like she will you'll
throw something at her and the
asymmetric thinking is incredible,
right? That you know, like I didn't
think of that. happens to me all the
time. So, I love that too.
>> And Aji, this was amazing. Uh, we
covered so much ground, so many lessons
learned over these past 50 years about
life and work and PMing and all the
things. Two final questions. Where can
folks find you online if they want to
reach out and how can listeners be
useful to you?
>> They can find us online at
dubdubdub.product.co.
That's first. That's where we help
founders and help companies build better
products. uh they can find us on
Substack um where we p publish as
product mind. Um
I think those are the main places like
we are starting to put content out in
like YouTube or um you know just
experimenting with how to amplify our
voice but those are the two main places
you can find us.
>> Awesome. And we'll link to all that
stuff in the show notes and then yeah as
>> no same thing like our LinkedIn we're I
always say my DMs are always open.
That's what I always tell people. our
work. Um, you can reach out to us. We
we're pretty responsive to most people.
Um, but yeah, product.co
um is the best way to get a hold of us.
how they make useful to us is like we
are so inspired by what you've done with
your community and we're part of a few
communities but we are very interested
in partnering with more PMs especially
uh our executive cohort like who are
having a hard time right now like
partnering with us calling us like we
want to be able to distribute
opportunity that we may not be
interested in to PMs who are struggling
right now and sometimes it's not obvious
where to pass opportunity that we're not
interested in. So like I think useful to
us is reach out
um and there might be intersections that
help you or help us. So do it.
>> Amazing. And that's through DMs on
LinkedIn ideally or through your
website?
>> Yes, through our website or through
Substack or just LinkedIn.
>> Okay, all the places.
>> Incredible. Uh thank you too so much for
being here.
>> Such a pleasure.
>> Thank you, Lenny. Um, we just like what
you're doing for our community is
incredible. So, uh, hats off.
>> I appreciate it.
>> Hats off. Good to see the progress over
over the years. So, yeah. Well done.
Thank you.
>> Thank you. You, too.
>> Okay.
>> Bye, everyone.
>> Bye.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.